Go ahead and jump in, uh, to today's text.
If you wanna turn with
me, we'll be in Acts two.
Uh, we're gonna be reading
versus 30, th 37 through 47.
Uh, we'll spend the majority of our time
in versus 42 through 47, but we'll be
reading Acts chapter 2 37 through 47.
Um, so last week we discussed,
um, The first part of our series.
So our series is talking about next steps.
And one of the things, uh, because
obviously I'm consistently see
each and every week, we have
different people in and out that
I'm gonna send these messages out.
So, um, to those who aren't here,
and if you weren't here last
week, my encouragement is to go
listen to last week's message.
But in this next step series,
we're really walking through as a
church, um, our strategy, right?
We've been talking about
our mission, right?
Our mission is to inspire.
By helping people discover God's purpose
for their life through a relationship with
Jesus, we truly believe that the greatest
way that we can help people do that is
by following Jesus, living in community.
Serving those around us and
expanding God's kingdom.
Um, and so that's kind of what
we've been walking through.
So last week was following Jesus, and,
uh, Britt has been serving in kids last
week and this week, and she listened to my
message and she said, Well, here's a good
thing about your message this last week.
She said, You, you said
the name of Jesus a lot.
And I said, Well, praise God
if I got something right.
I did say that.
So, um, that is who we are as a church.
And I would tell people this
is, um, we are unashamed.
In, in our, our thoughts and our
conversations and what we talk
about, that Jesus changes our life.
That everything we do flows out
of that relationship with Jesus,
and that that's exactly why our
strategy is to follow Jesus.
And that sounds so simple, yet so
complicated, all in the same sentence.
That's why we're here during
this series, to talk about why
is it important to follow Jesus?
What does that step,
what does that look like?
And we talked about that last week,
but we get to talk about what I call
as the next step after following Jesus,
which we see the new believers in acts
and how they responded, what their
next step was after following Jesus.
So we're gonna kind of jump into
that, and that is really when we
talk about living in community.
Living in community.
And so I went out and looked at Webster's
Dictionary and it defines community
as a unified body of individuals, such
as a group of people with a common
characteristic or interest living
together within a larger society.
So I'm gonna say that again, A unified
body of individuals, such as a group of
people with a common characteristic or
interest living together in a larger.
In just looking in that, I
think we can see obviously the
idea behind community, right?
A group of people that have common
interests and, and usually it's a, a
group living within a larger group.
And we at Inspiring Hope, talk
about the idea of living in
community as our inspired groups.
We have inspire groups during the week
and we took off during the summer, but
we're getting ready to start those back.
Um, and something that I lay to each one
of your seats somewhere around there.
Um, and again, I'm gonna give this out
to everybody else that wasn't here today.
Um, but these cards are an opportunity
for you to fill out what night of the
week might be good for you to be able
to be a part of an inspire group.
And so what I do know is that it is
difficult to find a night for everybody.
And so we are not necessarily
saying, Hey, if you mark down that
we're gonna create an inspire group
for you every night of the week.
But what we're saying is we'd like to
know, number one, if you could attend
an Inspire group, which I would say
this, most of us could, if we could
choose the night or day in time, right?
So choose a couple of days and
options and then that lets us know.
One, you're interest in the groups,
but two, the nights that you can do it.
And then we're gonna see what we can
do to either have a group on that
night and if we can't, we're still
going to talk about how to waste to
connect with you on those nights.
Um, but anyways, as we look at how
important community is, one of the cool
parts about Jesus, and this is what I
would say, like when I go and study God's
word, I go and see what did Jesus do?
Well, Jesus lived in community.
See, after he started his
ministry, the first thing.
All right, we'll wait a minute and see
if we can get everything rebooted back.
I don't know.
Should I even go on
Let there be light.
There it is.
In the beginning I didn't
start early enough in creation.
Yes.
Now we didn't do Okay.
Okay, so Jason, do we have sound again?
Are we.
At least got sound.
I know that video's probably loading
back up and that may take a few minutes.
You're good on video too.
Okay, we're good on sound
cuz I don't hear anything.
So that's the only thing I was gonna say.
You got anything?
There we go.
Hello.
Okay, we are back.
All right.
Live in action.
Where we go here.
So Jesus, after.
He started his ministry, right?
He was baptized, he was,
um, tested for 40 days.
He came back and last week we saw, rather
than doing ministry alone, he said,
Let me go gather a community of people.
And so he began to invite these men to
follow him in this community, to go be
a part of this awesome mission that each
one of us have been called to right?
To expand the gospel, to let people
know the love of Jesus around the world.
So Jesus obviously had community.
The only time you saw Jesus out of
community was when he was going away
to spend time with his father, right?
And so this is what we could say is,
so the only reason why we could justify
ourselves being away from community is
if we're alone with the Father, right?
We're alone with Jesus and we're growing
our personal relationship with Christ.
But outside of that, he was
consistently in community.
And we see even in the New Testament,
that same thing in the Book of
Acts and so on and so forth.
I think when we look at this, that Jesus
taught us that we are better together.
We're stronger together, where
it's an essential part of following
Jesus', living in community together.
And I look at this as Sundays as
one of those opportunities, and
we'll learn more about that today.
But really we would look at that.
It's every day we have that opportunity.
Um, and so, uh, I wanted
to ask this question.
I love asking questions to you.
Why?
What is the benefit?
Of living in community with other people.
What's the benefit?
Support, What else?
What's the benefit of living
in community with other people?
Accountability.
What else?
Yeah, absolutely.
Anything else?
Fun.
Yeah, The hangout have fun, right?
Friendship, Um, encouragement,
spiritual growth and learning.
So as, as we begin to think about
this, cuz I do things every day
because I see value in them and
the things I don't do every day are
the things I don't see value in.
So at some point when we look
at this idea behind community
or living in community together,
It'll never be a part of our life.
It'll never be an important part of our
life until we see how valuable it is.
And so this is where we're gonna continue
to build off this idea that God has
designed us for community, not isolation.
And that's why we look at, even in the
beginning when he created Adam, he says
it wasn't good for Adam to be alone.
Right.
And that's where he created Eve.
But even bigger than,
this is the cool part.
When God sent Jesus to save us from our
sins, he created the body of Christ.
You all know this, right?
We, we can't just function with
one part of our body working.
The body works together best when
we're working together in community.
And I go back to that definition.
I know I haven't even started
really in the text yet, right?
But I wanna set this up.
Going back to that definition,
it's a unified body of individuals.
This is a community, right?
A unified body of individuals,
such as a group of people with a
common characteristic or interest
living together within a larger.
So the idea behind community is, and
the body of Christ is that we work
best functioning and living together.
And that's exactly why God
created this idea behind community
and the body of Christ and how
important it is for each one of us.
Um, and I wanna just, I just
just wanna think back to this
before we jump into this text.
How critical to me when I started
thinking about living in community,
that piece has been in my.
I believe I am who I am today because of
the communities that I've been a part of.
Whenever I first gave my life to
Christ, the church that we were going
to, we started going to, um, we called
it small groups on Sunday morning,
and we went to a young Marri's class.
And that was a class where me and
Britney really grew in our faith
and we were really challenged.
And out of that we went with another,
uh, couple and we started a group.
And out of that we started another group.
And out of that we started
another group and we started
one more group before we moved.
It's so cool.
Those communities, I begin to think
about that we were a part of, Not
only were me and Britney so impacted
and I am the person I am today, but
I begin to realize the people that
I was able to impact and meet like
those stories will be with me forever
because those communities change me.
So whenever I look at this, and I
really wanna challenge those of you
that are here tho, those of you who
end up seeing this video when I send it
to you, cuz I believe the strength of
inspiring hope going forward will be.
The devotion that we put in living
in community together outside of
Sunday mornings, doing life together,
encouraging one another, believing in
one another, supporting one another.
That is where the strength will
happen, and we're gonna see
that today in today's text.
We're gonna see how they model what
living in community looks like.
So we're gonna jump into this again, and
this starts in verse 37 and all the way
down to 47 in Acts chapter two, and I'll
kind of catch you up a little bit here.
What what's happened is, is um, Peter
and the Apostles had waited, you
know, for the Holy Spirit to come.
The Holy Spirit came and they went out
and they began to preach the gospel.
All these people came to faith in Christ.
Over 3000 were coming to faith into
Christ, and this is the the point in
which they're coming to faith in Christ.
They'd shared the gospel and it picks
up in verse 37, it says, When they heard
this, They were pierced to the heart
and said to Peter and the rest of the
Apostles Brothers, what should we do?
And Peter replied, Repent and be baptized,
each one of you and the name of Jesus
Christ for the forgiveness of your sins.
And you will receive the gift of the uh,
of the Holy Spirit for the promise is for
you and your children and for all those
who are far off, as many as the Lord are.
Will call, and with many other words, he
testified strongly and urged them, saying,
Be saved from this corrupt generation.
So that who accepted this message
were baptized, and that day, about
3000 people were added to them.
And then it says that they
devoted themselves to the apostles
teaching, to the fellowship, to the
breaking of bread and to prayer.
Everyone was filled with all and
many wonders and signs were being
performed through the apostles.
Now, all the believers were together
and held all things in common.
They sold their possessions and
property and distributed proceeds
to the to all as any had need.
Every day, they devoted themselves
to meeting together in the temple
and breaking bread from house to
house that ate their food with
joyful and sincere hearts, praising
God and enjoying the favor of all.
Every day the Lord added to their
number, those who are being save.
Let's take a moment to pray.
Lord Jesus, we just pray, Lord
that our hearts are open today.
My Lord mind included.
Um, that we see the value, Lord, we see
the opportunity we have in community.
We see Lord, that it is a next
step that every one of us.
Is being invited in to take and
to make priority in our life
because it is valuable, not only
for us, but for those around us.
Lord, I pray that you continue to
walk with us as a church as we begin
to continue to take next steps.
Lord and I pray that we continue
to see life change, um, and Lord,
that we will continue to give you
praise because of that life change.
And so, Lori, just pray
this in your Heaven name.
So we see here as we, we kind
of almost even, uh, look at the,
the first couple of verses there.
37 through, uh, 41, we see obviously
them responding to the gospel.
These 3000 people respond to the gospel
and I begin to look at, that's the
moment they begin to take next steps.
These people heard the
gospel and they repented.
They were baptized and they received
the spirit of God inside of.
But they didn't stop there, right?
Those were next steps.
They were pined of their sins.
They were baptized, they
received the spirit of God.
They live inside them,
and they didn't stop.
They, they continued to to take
next steps by living in community.
So what does community look like?
And I believe this text clearly tells us
what community looks like, is devotion.
He says this in verse 42 and 46,
that they devoted themselves to these
things, and I even wouldn't look at
another word other than devotion,
is they dedicated themselves.
They committed themselves to these things.
And if you would even see here,
most of the time it was daily.
It wasn't a one time thing.
It wasn't a occasional,
it was a daily act.
And so whenever I started looking at
this, I started saying, Okay, the first
step of obedience outside of salvation
and baptism, Was to live in community.
If you wanna know why.
As a church, we've set that
up as a strategy to follow
Jesus and live in community.
We believe that's the
way the church started.
It was a good way to start and we should
continue that way as a church is to
to prioritize community after faith.
And so that's why we talk
about living in community.
So let's see what they devoted themselves
to and how that applies to us as well.
So these new followers of Jesus
devoted and dedicated themselves
to the apostles teaching.
Well, just so you know,
there's no more apostles other
than the word of God, right?
So they're devoted to that.
They're devoted to what?
I would even say this.
Why is.
because they were new in their faith.
They knew, Hey, we don't really fully
understand all this, so we're gonna
devote ourselves to wise teaching.
And so that's really what we see
here when they devoted themselves
to the apostles teaching.
Here's the part I love, I've, I've
read it in different versions, but
in the csb, here's what it says.
It says they devoted themselves
to the apostles teaching.
And two, the fellowship.
And I stopped because the initially,
when I look at this, this is what I.
They devote themselves to fellowship,
and I believe that's a part of it, right?
Fellowship, which means is the,
the hanging out and the part
of the breaking of bread and,
and doing life together, right?
That's the first part
that most of us think of.
But this is the part that I really
want us to think through, and I want
us to be challenged to think they
devoted themselves to the fellowship.
Well, the fellowship means they
were dedicated themselves to one.
. Right.
And I think that's a different
picture, guys, because to, to
dedicate myself to just attending a
community group or an inspire group
and hanging out is a good thing.
And I believe that's the
part that they're saying they
dedicated themselves to that too.
But when they dedicated to themselves to
one another, that was like a marriage,
that was like a, a union that God
designed the body to put together.
So I see this as such an important part.
They dedicated themselves to one another.
And I remember making this
statement in Brockington.
You may remember this.
I remember the group that we
had with Nathan and Christine.
I would make this statement
pretty consistently when I get
the opportunity to teach in there.
What if your attendance in this community
group, this small group, wasn't just here
to change your life but somebody else's?
By you being here, you're
encouraging somebody else.
And for me, most of the.
Brock and Jenna's presence encouraged
me because they cared enough to come.
They saw it as valuable, right?
So like when we are dedicated to
each other in fellowship, like
there's a relationship there guys
that is strong, that is valuable,
that God has designed us for.
And so I love that picture that we're
dedicated to one another because what
if your involvement in Inspire group
is what changes someone else's lives?
Here's, let me just, let
me challenge you with this.
Your dedication to those things
will change someone's else's life.
Yours, right?
Because you're there, but there's someone
there that needs your encouragement,
your dedication to them to care.
And I, my, my challenge is, and we're
gonna continue to talk about this with
Inspire groups and as those who lead out
new Inspire groups, is that we create
communities That's just not the leader's
responsibility to be dedicated to the.
And like checking in on him and investing,
but it's the group's responsibility
to, to take care of one another.
And even those, what?
I'll just even say this, so you know
what, If my schedule doesn't match
up with an Inspire group, if your
schedule doesn't match up with an
Inspire group, you're still going
to be a part of an inspire group.
You may not get to 10 attend,
but those people will have
you as part of their group.
They will connect themselves.
They will dedicate themselves to
you as a group to invest in you.
Pray for you, encourage.
Because that's the church we wanna be.
We wanna be just like the
church that started here.
So we, as they continue on, it says that
they were devoted to breaking bread.
Everybody loves eating food,
so why wouldn't you dedicate
yourself to that while you meet?
We love food.
That's why we eat.
But I would even say this, some of
the best conversations, some of the
most funny things happen over a mill.
I like laughing.
I, I like hanging.
I would even say this, a lot of the mills
I've even had since we've been here at
Inspiring Hope, have been some of the
coolest meals because a lot of times those
mills were part of me inviting people to
come be a part of inspiring Hope, right?
Like, we're gonna hang out and we're
gonna talk about some cool things.
So I love, that's why we have
lunch with, you know, lunch, right?
When we have the next steps.
Lunch.
It's because it's just
cool to hang out with food.
So I think we're just being godly
when we break bread together.
Okay.
Then most even believe this,
that at the end of those mills
that they would celebrate a
communion, um, with that as well.
And so it even talks to the idea
behind having communion together.
Um, and then it says this,
he talks about that they were
dedicated themselves to prayer.
So prayer for one another.
And this is truly a place to be vulnerable
and to share what's going on in our lives.
And I would even say this, this is
something that I want to continue to teach
myself and I wanna continue to teach our.
We undervalue the power and
the importance of prayer.
It was an essential part in these
new believers' lives, right?
To teaching, to fellowship, to
breaking a bread into prayer.
It was a key part, and I think
many times this is just being me.
I don't mention prayer request because
I feel embarrassed by some of the
things I want you to pray for me about,
or I don't even mention our prayer
request because I'm not trusting God.
Enough in the areas to even have one.
I don't have one.
I'm not prayer request, cuz
I've got it all figured out.
I'm good.
So it's like, to me, I think that's
part of this, as we look at living in
community together, we need to dedicate
ourselves to prayer and the more idea
behind the purpose of prayer, to be more
like God, to be able to be vulnerable
with one another and to encourage one.
So we see that just in those, that
first, first of verse 42 here.
But let's just continue on cuz it
goes down and I'm, I'm gonna kind
of split this up into section of 46.
And he says, And every day
they devoted themselves, right?
So they continue to devote themselves
and dedicate themselves to doing what
it says that they devoted themselves
to meeting together in the temple.
So this is just, again, if you think about
the temple, pre Jesus, the temple was
the place where the presence of God was.
I started thinking, Well, they
don't need to go to the temple
anymore because the presence of
God doesn't hang out there anymore.
But then I kind of laughed
and corrected myself.
When we come to the temple, a
place of gathering, the presence of
God is there because we're there.
So why would we, you know, look
at this and go, Well, you know,
they don't need the temple, that
Christ lives inside of them.
They're saying we needed a big
enough place to hang out with each.
So they needed the big community.
That's why you hear us, like
we have Sunday mornings, Why
do we have Sunday mornings?
And I know you're looking at 'em.
This isn't much of a big community.
It's a bigger community than
what you would normally see
in an inspire group, right?
When we have everybody here.
So that bigger community is to
come together, to meet together and
see the whole church, to encourage
the whole church to, to gather and
learn in God's word into praise.
Right?
So they were dedicated to
that same thing as we are as.
Then they were also dedicated
to meeting house, to house.
This is where we talk
about community, right?
This is the community that we're
saying, doing life together.
When you meet in somebody's home, I
look at it at two different places.
I, I've had groups at the church
and I've had groups in my home.
Groups at the church are great,
but I don't feel like that there
is comfortable and as relaxed
and as inviting as a home is.
Home is where family comes.
I would say this, this is a challenge
that, that I have been reminded
of even recently, that when we
invite people under a home, we've
given them refrigerator rights.
You know what a refrigerator rights are
that they can walk in, they can open your
refrigerator and take anything out of it,
and you're not gonna go, What are you?
, Right?
It's that it's that moment where they're
family that you have, as we go back
to, as you have dedicated yourself to
one another, they're as, as have as
much access as you do to your home.
That's the type of life that these
people, after they had just, this is
the beginning of the church y'all.
This is whenever the spirit of God began
to, in dwell on people and people begin to
get to saved they dead educated themselves
to living in community together.
That's what God has called us to do.
That's why we need to continue to
find ways to do that as a church
and to follow after these examples.
And this is the cool part.
I don't have to go out and recreate this.
It's right here.
The, the apostles are
speaking to me right now.
They're speaking to you right
now to tell us how to do life,
how to live as followers of
Jesus, not because we have to.
This is the cool part, is because
they devoted them, devoted,
devoted themselves to these things.
There was a natural
outflow of this, right?
Let me, let me, let me talk about this.
The result of dedicating themselves
to this is these next couple of
verses, The overflow of living in
community is versus 43 through 45,
and a couple of things in 46 and 47.
So 43 says this.
It says Everyone was filled with
all and many wanders and signs were
being performed through the Aus.
I look at this way when we look at verse
43, because they de dedicated and devoted
themselves to living in community.
These people were inspired by God, right?
We, I know he's sitting here saying
that they, the, the apostles were
doing wanders and signs and at times,
I'll just tell you guys this, when
you live in community enough, you're
gonna see God move in miraculous ways.
These people were inspired by God.
They were so transformed.
They was drawing out of them
what they knew that they were
created for, which was community.
They got to see God move, right?
And then we see in verse 44, it
says, Now all the believers were
together and held things in common.
So out of the overflow of devotion to
community, these believers were unified.
They were, It's says they held all things
in common, and this is where we'd say is
they didn't see their stuff as their own.
They had refrigerator rights, Right.
Their stuff wasn't their own.
They were theirs.
Were the communities and the
unified, We talk a lot about this.
Unified is not uniforming.
It doesn't mean we all look the same.
We all have the same tastes and all
the same emotions and all the same.
You know what?
But we are unified under what Christ,
the transforming life of Jesus in our
lives and flowing out of our lives.
And so I, I go back.
When we dedicate ourselves to these
things living in community together,
there's a natural outflow from it.
And I know you guys probably get
tired of my great examples of
this, but I love working out.
I just do that.
I'm the crazy person.
I love working out, but the result
of dedicating myself to working out
produces the outflow of strength and
more endurance, and it's something
that fuels me and excites me.
I love it.
I'm sorry.
I do, but I do that not because
I just, you know, I love pain.
But it's, it's, I actually
en enjoy those things.
I dedicate myself to see the result cuz
we, we dedicate ourselves, we devote
ourselves to community, not just for
our benefit, but for the benefit of
the kingdom of God, for the benefit
to see other people experience the
transforming hope that you've experienced.
So when we come back to this, every
one of us has an excuse why we
don't wanna live in community or why
we struggle to live in community.
And it may be just so you know, I get it.
It may be because your
schedule's a lot like mine.
I don't really know much of an evening
right now that I have free, but I started
asking myself this question, but why
would I wanna prioritize community?
Because it is valuable not only for
me and for other people in that.
And so we're gonna get to more
Is community only inspire groups?
No, it's not.
We're gonna, we're gonna
continue with that.
There's more to it, but let's just
continue on with, with this here.
Um, in verse 45, right?
Those 44 or 43 and 44.
So in 45 it says this, it says
they sold their possessions and
property and distributed, um, the
proceeds to all who had need, right?
And so we look at this as is,
as they function together as
one, they were unified, They saw
each other's needs as their own.
And this is the cool part that I've seen.
Inspiring hope I, I've seen this
actually fleshed out in our church.
It excites me that we see our community
of believers and as those who are new in
our church, as part of our family, as part
of our responsibility to take care of not
only from a selling property right to to
provide a need, but even meeting needs as
mills meeting needs as coming and helping
move to doing all kinds of things like.
They did that same thing, right?
They did whatever they could, their time,
their talents, and their treasures, and
they gave that to those who had need.
And I just challenge you.
That's why we also give as a church,
because as we give as a church, we don't
only invest in each other, we invest in
our community and meet those same needs.
Then we look at the first part of 46,
uh, or excuse the second part of 46, cuz
we kind of covered the first part of 46.
But it says this, every day they
devoted themselves to the meeting
together in the temple and breaking
up bread from house to house.
And the result of those dedications,
those devotions, was they ate their
food with joyful and sincere hearts.
Joyful and sincere hearts.
Guys, I'll just tell you this.
When you spend time in community,
The overflow from that is joyful
hearts and, and it's just in the
simple things of eating food.
I mean, I like food, y'all.
I do, but not am I always
just joyful about it.
They were joyful about it because
they understood that everything
they have is a blessing from God.
They understood everything that they have
is a blessing from God, so they could
see joy even if, and, and many of these
people aren't rich people that just.
Food all the time.
But these people, most of them were
joyful because we just saw the verses
before their needs were being met,
like they've never been met before.
They begin to praise God.
We see this in verse 47.
The result of living a community
is praising God and enjoying
the favor of all people.
So God receive praise.
For people living in community
because he was working in and
through them, and I love this.
He says they enjoyed
favor from all people.
Man, I don't think I'm living
in enough community at times.
Whenever I think I'm wondering, I'm
probably not receiving favor from all
people, but what I would say in this,
people begin to see God working in that
community and they were interested.
They, they were receiving favor
because typically what you would
even see in the Old Testament is even
people who didn't believe in God.
Would know that God's hands
was on a people and and they
would be envious of them.
They would, they would be in
favor with them because they
didn't wanna mess anything up.
Well, we see the same thing as God
was working through these people.
They had favor with all kinds of people.
And I would even say this guys, as
we continue to live in community
with one another, as we continue
to serve our community, which we'll
talk about next week, we have already
seen favor in our city because of.
And we look at this and
we see what does God do?
God works through living in community.
And I would say this, how many of y'all
like to hang out with people, right?
Like we, we, we enjoy it.
We do.
But at times, I know this just
take inspire group, but times,
whenever we were doing inspir
group, I felt like it was a chore.
We know why.
Cuz it didn't see the value in it.
I only saw the difficulty
of creating the environment.
I missed the joy in it.
And so I started looking and pouring
over this, and I started reflecting
on all the groups I've been a part of.
Guys, this is the craziest thing.
Our church started as a community
at home and Riley on Zoom and
Brock and Jenna just moved here.
That was how it started, and somehow
a couple more people showed up and
a couple more people showed up,
and a couple more people showed up.
And we lived in community and we laughed
and we ate and we hung out, and we prayed
and we devoted ourselves to one another.
Do you know that hasn't changed?
That commitment as a
church hasn't changed yet.
We have now more groups and we
have now the, the temple meeting
that that shouldn't change.
And those relationships though,
maybe in different groups now,
cuz y'all know this, right?
The hardest part of starting
multiple groups is saying bye to
the other group that you spent all
this time with, and remembering
that that group's still gonna be.
In the big time and occasional
times together, but that group needs
to continue to reach new people.
While this new group's reached into new
people, I'm just telling you it was the
hardest thing to do for me and Brittney
when we helped start four different
groups, we left, well three because the
last group we, I guess we technically left
two, but it was difficult to lead those
groups because we loved those people.
But you know what motivated
us to go start new groups?
You wanna know, know what motivated Brock
and Jenna to go start a crazy group with
us and then move across the world with us.
Because they saw the people that they
would go impact the people that we
would go impact as a greater burden
than the burden of leaving friends
burden, of leading those relationships.
All of us, if they weren't
good friendships, you probably
weren't in a good group.
So it's gonna hurt.
But what I would say with this, and I'm
just, I'm wanting us to come back to
this idea of, and we're getting ready
to get to the, the fruit of community.
Is that as we live in community,
we will have new communities start
where we aren't as close, but those
communities can become the communities
that we started with as a church
when we started in our home, If we'll
dedicate and devote ourselves to them.
At times it's difficult, but in the
difficult work, some of the greatest
results, what are those great results?
We see this in the last part of 47,
The Fruit of Living in Community,
The Fruit of Living in Community.
It says this on the last part of verse 47.
It says, Every day the
Lord added to their number.
Those who are being.
I, I want you to see this as a church.
I, I've heard these statements from other
people and I, I warrant them because I,
I understand the burden that they fill.
But I love our little community.
I, I love our little group of church.
If we add any more people, we'll
lose touch with one another.
And my challenge is, don't forget.
That this community reached you and, and
the value that you find in this community,
and that you see that there, there are
other people, there are other people out
there wanting that community, wanting
people who will meet their needs, people
who will show them the love of Christ,
people who will prey with them, People
who will commit themselves to one another.
They're waiting on.
To go live in community with one
another and to go start new communities
so that we can see the fruit.
More people come to experience that
same experience that you've experienced.
Right, Because these believers lived in
community and did life with one another.
The lives of those around
them were being changed.
They were, they were being a picture
to the lost and hurting world around.
This is, I'll just tell you, I, I,
if I could define inspiring hope,
I wanna define us as a community
that lives together just like this.
Guys, if we can't dedicate to
this, I don't know if I wanna
be dedicated to anything else.
I really don't.
And that's really the burden that
God's been putting on my heart.
If we don't get back to the genuineness
of living in community together and
starting more communities to invite
people into, we're gonna miss the.
Of why God's called us
to plant this church.
This community needs it.
Your neighbors need it.
Your family needs it.
We need it.
What is it gonna take?
Dedicating it and devoting ourselves to
these things, not out of a burden, but
out of excitement, out of an opportunity.
So the greatest way to experience growth
in your personal walk and God's kingdom
is to live in community with one.
So I want to circle back to this.
Is there only one way to live in
community together in inspire groups?
Cuz you know, it says that in the
Bible it's only in inspire groups.
No.
Yes, there's discipleship relationships
and there's work relationships and
there's neighbor relationships.
But I wanna, I wanna point
out one specific thing here
that he does talk about.
He is talking about believers
gathering together in communities.
So yes, we should have.
Some groups where we have a lot of lost
people involved, or we're hanging out
with neighbors and doing those things.
And that's part of community living that.
But this community was specifically for
the believers to build one another up.
We go back to encourage one another up.
And yes, there was people being
added to them daily because they
were seeing it and they were
invited into it and experiencing it.
So inspire groups is the way that we see
as a way to commit to fleshing that out.
And so I, I wanna say this, if
you don't plan for something,
we all have great intentions.
Y'all have great intentions of eating.
Until you look in your fridge and you
see cheesecake rather than, you know,
something healthy and you eat cheesecake.
I, I, my guess I'm just
gonna throw a guess out here.
Everybody in this room probably desires
to live in community with one another.
Maybe you're already doing it, but
you desire and you desire to see
other people live in community.
But what's the difference between
leaving out here and being a part
of that community and helping
others be involved in it or not?
It's actually putting something
down to hold you accountable to.
If you'll commit to being a
part of an inspire group once
a week, it's there every week.
It's a group of people that are expecting
you, that are gonna hold you accountable,
that's gonna help you grow in your
faith and to be a part of this thing.
And, and yes, I want you
to do more than that.
I want you to hang out with people at your
work and, and live in community with them.
And I want you to hang out with
your neighbors and those things.
And for me, right now, I'm gonna hang
out with people on the football field.
I don't know what I'm doing, but
I can hang out with those people
cuz they're crazier than I am.
But I'm trying to figure out
how to do community there too.
But I believe God's called us to
a community of believers as well.
That's why we have that, that's
why we're launching these groups
again, that's why we're wanting
to prioritize that as a church.
So we have to make it a consistent thing.
So I'm, I'm gonna finish up this way.
I, I'm gonna be done, I promise.
So, as we seek God's word to
see how we should live our lives
after giving your lives to Jesus.
We see that living in community is the
next logical step, the next logical step
for them and for us not to begrudgingly
do it, because that's what we have to do.
Because I'm just telling you, if
you have that heart, oh, just tell
me and I'm gonna pray for you and
we're gonna talk about not having the
heart of this is what I have to do.
No, we saw today the benefits
of being a part of c.
That's why we are a part of
community, because we see that
as we devote ourselves, there's
this fruit that comes out of it.
And there's these things that we
get to experience these, these
things that we would've never
experienced apart from that community.
I hope today you are being drawn
in and, and wanna be a part of
community to experience that.
So during our time of invitation, this
is one I wanna challenge you with.
What's stopping you
from being a part of c?
So, so I wanna speak to everybody.
Hey, well, when we start back up
groups, I'll be there every week.
Okay, great.
What's stopping you from being
committed to that community?
Even more.
Because we can attend community
for me, or we can invest in the
community that we're a part of.
And that's the part I wanna
continue to challenge everybody.
Everybody has a next step.
It may not all look the same,
but everybody has an next step.
For some of you, what's stopping you
from being a part of community right?
To, to experience this overflow of c.
Is it because there isn't a night
that we do an inspire group together,
Is it because you don't have a
group of people to do life with?
And if that's true, that's why you
have a card there to fill out and say,
Hey, there's even notes down there.
You can write down, Hey, none of
these nights work, None of these
days work because my life's crazy
busy, but I desire community.
You know what we'll do?
We'll reach out and we'll talk about
how can we create community with you.
If you circle a night that we don't
have an inspired group, what can we do?
Just like what we talked
about every inspire.
Once we have these things going,
we'll have three inspire groups.
Every one of those groups will have
people attached to them that may
never attend that group because it
doesn't match up with their night.
But they're going to minister to you.
They're gonna invite you into
community as you have opportunity
to, and we're gonna create that.
Guys.
The future of Inspiring Hope is
focusing on living in community.
The overflow of that will change your
life, change this church's life and will
change this community's life, I believe.
That's why we are talking about this.
This is why I am who I am, because the
communities that I've been a part of have
made me the person I am today because
Jesus worked through those communities and
I can't help but wanna be a part of the
next person that gets to experience the
community that I've been a part of and be
changed to be a part of another community,
to be a part of another community.
So what's stopping you
from being a part of that?
I also challenge you with this.
Maybe you've never even taken the.
Of giving your life to Jesus.
What's stopping you from
giving your life to Jesus?
Only you know that, and Jesus knows that.
So during invitation, I challenge you
to ask God what it looks like to take
a next step to follow Jesus, or a next
step to be in community with one another.
Please fill out those cards.
Write down where you're interested
in being a part of a group.
But I'll just tell you
this, Don't make an excuse.
Everybody has 'em.
But community is more important
than whatever excuse we can make
because God wants to work in your
life and the lives of those of
the community you're a part of.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus.
Lord, we thank you Lord
because you are good.
We thank you because your word is truth.
And Lord, as we, as a church look deep
into your word and as we go back to
really our, our, our roots of, of why we.
We are reminded, Lord, the
number one we are to follow you.
We are to lay down everything that is
hindering our, our walk on our life.
And we follow after you Lord.
And as we look at your example, your
example was set when you first begin
your ministry, where you brought
a community in to live life with,
do life with encouraged to teach.
But then, Lord, whenever.
Left this earth and left the
Holy Spirit to live in our lives.
You set another example of community that
the next logical step after following
you is to do life with one another.
To be devoted to these things, to Weis
teaching, to prayer, to the fellowship,
to one another, to breaking up bread,
to meeting together in the temple,
to meeting together in each other's
homes to experience the outflow.
Of those things, Lord, to
see people's needs being met.
Many wanders and signs being done.
More people coming to faith in you.
Praise and worship, Lord, these are
things that we desire to see as a
church, and I believe every person in
this room desires to experience that.
But Lord, there is something that
may be hindering them from that.
Lord, will you remove it today?
Lord, I'm asking you right.
Not in my power, Lord, by desire
is that you remove whatever it is
that is hindering anybody in this
room to be a part of community.
If it's work, Lord, will you remove it?
If, if it's an unwillingness to
be vulnerable because it's just
a struggle to be part of a small
group, Lord, will you remove it?
If it's just anxiety, if it's, if
it's busyness, I, Lord, I don't know,
but whatever it is, Lord, will you.
Lord, will you take those
who weren't even here today?
And Lord, as I get an opportunity
to share this message with them this
week, and as they begin to contemplate,
Lord, what their next step is, Lord,
will you remove the barriers there?
Lord I, I know this.
We've done all that we can and it's
nothing compared to all that you can.
And so that, Lord, that's why we're
praying, that's why we're using your
word to remind us of who we are.
Because apart from your word,
apart from you, and apart from
prayer, Lord, we can do nothing.
So, Lord, my desire, our desire as
a church is to know you more and to
experience the community that you've
called us, to devote ourselves to Lord,
to give us the passion and desire and the
inspiration, Lord, to go out and to to
share that with other people and to invite
them into the community that we have.
Lord, we are praying for
life change in our community.
We're praying for one more person.
One more person has experienced your hope,
Lord, that's the last thing that I wanna
pray today, is that if there is a person
in this room that has not given their
life to you, Lord, may they not leave
today before they give their life to you.
Lord, may they repent their sins,
May they confess you as Lord.
May they take a next step of.
Them and may they begin the journey of
living in community with one another.
Lord, if there's a person in this room,
Lord, I pray that they come back and
talk to me after service, Lord, that they
share with me their need to follow you.
Lord, if there's a person in this room
whose relationship with Jesus has been
hindered, Lord, may you forgive them.
May you restore that relationship and
may you continue to take us Lord from
here as individuals and as a church
to live in community together because
you have so called us to do that.
Lord, we thank you for today.
We thank you for everything
that you'll do in our lives,
and we pray this in your head.
Amen.